# Video Script

## Confusion of Biot-Savart's Law

It is quite rare in either math or physics that a more straightforward and more elegant solution is less intuitive, but the uniformity of solenoids is one such example.

[Need animation of magnetic field inside bar magnets, and the parallel magnetic field inside solenoids]

Solenoids are a type of electromagnet formed by a helical coil of wire whose length is much greater than its diameter; in calculations, we often assume that the solenoid is infinitely long. One of the great features of solenoids is they generate magnetic fields with the same pattern as bar magnets. That is to say, the magnetic field inside solenoids is uniform: the field lines are parallel to the length of the solenoid, and the strength will not change as we move around the space inside the solenoid.

Although this feature is that fascinating, I couldn't really understand it when I first learned it. One of the formulas that describe the relationship between magnetic fields and moving current is Biot-Savart Law, which states:

$$
\mathrm{d}B = \frac{\mu_0}{4\pi} \frac{I\mathrm{d}\vec{l} \times \hat{r}}{r^2}
$$

We don't need to care about other variables of the formula at the moment; just look at $r$, the distance between the wire and the point of measurement, and we can find that the uniformity of the magnetic field is not intuitive at all. As we get closer and closer to the wire, the magnetic field will become stronger and stronger, finally reaching infinity; how come the magnetic field is uniform if we get really close to the wire in the solenoid?

Usually, when we learn about the uniformity of solenoid's magnetic fields, teachers will use another approach to prove it, which is Ampere's Law, another formula that relates magnetic fields and moving current:

$$
\oint \vec{B} \cdot \mathrm{d}\vec{l} = \mu_0 I_{\mathrm{enclosed}}
$$
Here need an animation of a wire and a circular path around it to demonstrate how to use Ampere's Law]

The formula seems much cleaner than the Biot-Savart law. It simply suggests that if we integrate the magnetic field along some path, the value will be proportional to the enclosed electric current's magnitude. This makes sense, as many physical quantities are proportional to the inverse square of the distance, such as gravitational force and electric force.

[Need animation of applying Ampere's Law to a solenoid, and use right-hand rule to show that there will be no magnetic field in the vertical direction]

We can create an imaginary closed, rectangular loop inside the solenoid. Since there are no enclosed currents, the integration must be zero. And if we consider the cross-sectional view of a solenoid, we can see that one side contains the wire carrying current into the page, and the other side contains the wire carrying current out of the page. The vertical component of the magnetic field generated by these two wires will cancel each other out since the magnetic field generated by these into-the-page wires and out-of-the-page wires will circulate in different directions, and the integration will be zero on the two vertical lines.

[Move the parallel line up and down]

Now consider the two parallel lines; since the total integration must be zero, these two lines must have magnetic fields with the same magnitude but opposite directions on them. Furthermore, we can move these two parallel lines around, and they will always have equal but opposite magnetic fields on them; this way, we can prove that the magnetic field inside the solenoid is uniform.

However, we can see that this approach did not explain our confusion on the Biot-Savart Law: why is the magnetic field the same at all points inside the solenoid, even if we get really close to the wire? Although the Ampere Law approach is simple and elegant, a brute force calculation using the Biot-Savart Law might resolve the confusion better. 

